Document how to develop and test addon using devmode (#266)
anbox-cloud/discourse-docs: howto/anbox/develop-addon.md

> Developing and testing addons using AMS may take a lot of time. Instead, a container with `--devmode` enabled can provide a safe environment to test addons and their scripts without having to upload the addon to the AMS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developing and testing addons using AMS may be time-consuming. Instead, a container with `--devmode` enabled can provide a safe environment to test addons and their scripts without having to upload the addon to the AMS.
```
I think it reads a bit better, but I may be wrong. What do you think?

This guide explains how to use a container in development mode to develop and test an addon using Anbox runtime. See [development mode](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/17763#dev-mode) to learn more about development mode enabled containers.

## Launch a container with `--devmode` enabled

> Start a raw container with `--devmode` enabled:

Reviewer: That's pretty redundant with the title. Or the title is redundant with the first sentence, depending on how you see it.

>  `amc launch --devmode --raw`

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
amc launch --devmode --raw
```
````

>  The command prints out the ID of the container. Note down the container ID for next steps.
> 
>  Use the `amc shell <container_id>` command to open a shell inside the container. `container_id` is the container ID from the previous step.
> 
>  Alternatively, you can use `amc exec <container_id> <command_options>` to directly execute commands inside the container.

Reviewer: Why are these indented?
```suggestion
The command prints out the ID of the container. Note down the container ID for next steps.

Use the `amc shell <container_id>` command to open a shell inside the container. `container_id` is the container ID from the previous step.

Alternatively, you can use `amc exec <container_id> <command_options>` to directly execute commands inside the container.
```

## Develop and test an addon

> Use the container as a remote environment to develop your addon. To make your addon source available within the container, either copy the addon manifest and hooks using the [`lxc file push`](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/docs/latest/howto/instances_access_files/#push-files-from-the-local-machine-to-the-instance) command or clone a git repository using SSH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the container as a remote environment to develop your addon. To make your addon source available within the container, either copy the addon manifest and hooks using the [`lxc file push`](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/lxd/en/latest/howto/instances_access_files/#push-files-from-the-local-machine-to-the-instance) command or clone a git repository using SSH.
```

> You can test your addon scripts by running it inside the container shell. For example,  `ADDON_DIR=$PWD ./hooks/install` can help test if the install addon works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test your addon scripts by running it inside the container shell. For example, `ADDON_DIR=$PWD ./hooks/install` can help test if the install addon works.
```

To troubleshoot issues within the container, use `amc logs <container-id>` or restart the container using `amc stop <container_id>` and then `amc start <container_id>`.

## Example
The following example launches an SSH enabled raw container in development mode.

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
````

# Launch and obtain the container id

> id=$(amc launch --devmode -s ssh --raw)

Reviewer: Please double quote. It's not necessary, but it's a better practice. As this is customer-facing, I think it's important to have clean scripts.
```suggestion
id="$(amc launch --devmode -s ssh --raw)"
```

Author: Yes, thanks for clarifying!

# Install the ssh-import-id package
amc exec $id -- apt install -y ssh-import-id
# Import SSH keys for github
amc exec $id -- ssh-import-id gh:<ssh-key>

> # Get the <ssh-port>

Reviewer 2: Should we explain this a bit further so the user knows what to look for? We could also use something like

`amc show $id --format=json | jq '.network.public_address'`
`amc show $id --format=json | jq '.network.services[0].node_port'`

Author: Since this requires that the user has `jq` installed, I used a slightly different form with `json_pp`. Let me know if it is not clear enough.

amc ls
# Connect to the container using SSH
ssh -p <ssh-port> root@<host ip>

> # Clone your GitHub repository

Reviewer: It could be any git repo I think

> Developing and testing addons using AMS may be time-consuming. Instead, a container with `--devmode` enabled can provide a safe environment to test addons and their scripts without having to upload the addon to the AMS.

Reviewer: Is it `AMS` or `the AMS`?
Because we first have `using AMS may be time-consuming` and then `upload the addon to the AMS`.

This guide explains how to use a container in development mode to develop and test an addon using Anbox runtime. See [development mode](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/17763#dev-mode) to learn more about development mode enabled containers.

## Launch a container in development mode

Start a raw container with `--devmode` enabled:

```
amc launch --devmode --raw
```

The command prints out the ID of the container. Note down the container ID for next steps.

Use the `amc shell <container_id>` command to open a shell inside the container. `container_id` is the container ID from the previous step.

Alternatively, you can use `amc exec <container_id> <command_options>` to directly execute commands inside the container.

> ## Develop and test an addon

Reviewer: Isn't that the title of the page? Does it make sense to have a section with the same name?

Author: I have changed it but "Develop and test addons" will be the TOC heading and the post title can be "Develop and test addons using a container in development mode"

Use the container as a remote environment to develop your addon. To make your addon source available within the container, either copy the addon manifest and hooks using the [`lxc file push`](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/lxd/en/latest/howto/instances_access_files/#push-files-from-the-local-machine-to-the-instance) command or clone a git repository using SSH.

You can test your addon scripts by running it inside the container shell. For example, `ADDON_DIR=$PWD ./hooks/install` can help test if the install hook of the addon works.

To troubleshoot issues within the container,

> * Run `amc logs <container-id>` or `journalctl --no-pager` to view logs.

Reviewer: If I'm not mistaken, I think `amc logs` is executed on the host, whereas `journalctl` should run in the container. I think we should make it clear here.

Author: @morphis What is the right way to call out the difference between `amc logs` and `journalctl --no-pager`. I see that `amc logs` show the runtime logs of the container. `journalctl` is very detailed and is it showing the container logs?

* Restart the container using `amc stop <container_id>` and then `amc start <container_id>`.

> ## Example

Reviewer: Should we be a bit more explicit in the section name here?
Something like 'Development workflow example'?
I'm not sure if it's necessary, what do you think?

Author: I have removed the lead in sentence and used it as a more explicit heading, does it look better?

> Developing and testing addons using the Anbox Management Service (AMS) may be time-consuming. Instead, a container with `--devmode` enabled can provide a safe environment to test addons and their scripts without having to upload the addon to the AMS.

Reviewer 3: test addons
develop and tests addons

their scripts
->
their hooks

This guide explains how to use a container in development mode to develop and test an addon using Anbox runtime. See [development mode](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/17763#dev-mode) to learn more about development mode enabled containers.

## Launch a container in development mode

Start a raw container with `--devmode` enabled:

```
amc launch --devmode --raw
```

The command prints out the ID of the container. Note down the container ID for next steps.

Use the `amc shell <container_id>` command to open a shell inside the container. `container_id` is the container ID from the previous step.

Alternatively, you can use `amc exec <container_id> <command_options>` to directly execute commands inside the container.

## Create an addon within the container

Use the container as a remote environment to develop your addon. To make your addon source available within the container, either copy the addon manifest and hooks using the [`lxc file push`](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/lxd/en/latest/howto/instances_access_files/#push-files-from-the-local-machine-to-the-instance) command or clone a git repository using SSH.

> You can test your addon scripts by running it inside the container shell. For example, `ADDON_DIR=$PWD ./hooks/install` can help test if the install hook of the addon works.

Reviewer 3: As `ADDON_DIR` is mentioned here, probably it's worth mentioning all available environment vars which can be used in the hook here https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/ref/hooks#env-variables

To troubleshoot issues within the container, try either of the following options:
* Run `amc logs <container-id>` on the host to see the Anbox runtime logs.
* Run `journalctl --no-pager` within the container to view container logs.
* Restart the container using `amc stop <container_id>` and then `amc start <container_id>`.

## Example: Launch an SSH-enabled container for remote development

```bash
# Launch and obtain the container id
id="$(amc launch --devmode -s ssh --raw)"
# Install the ssh-import-id package
amc exec $id -- apt install -y ssh-import-id
# Import SSH keys for GitHub; Use lp:<user_name> for Launchpad
amc exec $id -- ssh-import-id gh:<user_name>
# Get the <public_address> and <node_port> values of the container

> amc show $id --format=json | json_pp

Reviewer 3: what's the `json_pp`?

Author: It just pretty prints the json format. I chose that because the command utility is available by default on Ubuntu machines(https://perldoc.perl.org/json_pp)

Author: @adglkh Simon had suggested `jq` first but when I tried it out for the first time, it required `jq` to be installed. Since it is not something installed by default and assumes that on the part of the user, I used `json_pp`. If you feel strongly about this, I can change it to using `jq` with additional comment saying that it has to be installed. Please let me know.

Reviewer 3: Okay, I see. That makes sense to me.
Thanks!

Reviewer 2: what advantage does json_pp give us here? It looks like we only use it for pretty printing but `amc show --format=json` should pretty print already. The idea with jq was to extract the ip/node port.

Author: This is what I see when I try it. If you still feel `jq` should be used as it is more useful, I can update the documentation accordingly and mention that `jq` should be installed prior.

```bash
ubuntu@vm5:~$ amc show $id --format=json
{"id":"cik1pnmk9eqm4inenf7g","name":"ams-cik1pnmk9eqm4inenf7g","status":"started","node":"lxd0","created_at":"2023-07-07 14:10:38 +0000 UTC","application":{},"image":{"id":"cgrqjd6k9eqlsruefcng","version":1},"network":{"address":"x.x.x.x","public_address":"x.x.x.x","services":[{"port":22,"node_port":10001,"expose":false,"protocols":["tcp"],"name":"ssh"}]},"stored_logs":[],"error_message":"","config":{"devmode":true},"resources":{},"app_id":"","app_version":0,"image_id":"cgrqjd6k9eqlsruefcng","image_version":1}ubuntu@vm5:~$ 
ubuntu@vm5:~$ amc show $id --format=json | json_pp
{
   "app_id" : "",
   "app_version" : 0,
   "application" : {},
   "config" : {
      "devmode" : true
   },
   "created_at" : "2023-07-07 14:10:38 +0000 UTC",
   "error_message" : "",
   "id" : "cik1pnmk9eqm4inenf7g",
   "image" : {
      "id" : "cgrqjd6k9eqlsruefcng",
      "version" : 1
   },
   "image_id" : "cgrqjd6k9eqlsruefcng",
   "image_version" : 1,
   "name" : "ams-cik1pnmk9eqm4inenf7g",
   "network" : {
      "address" : "x.x.x.x",
      "public_address" : "x.x.x.x",
      "services" : [
         {
            "expose" : false,
            "name" : "ssh",
            "node_port" : 10001,
            "port" : 22,
            "protocols" : [
               "tcp"
            ]
         }
      ]
   },
   "node" : "lxd0",
   "resources" : {},
   "status" : "started",
   "stored_logs" : []
}
ubuntu@vm5:~$ 
```

Author: As discussed in the SU, using `jq`.

# Connect to the container using SSH
ssh -p <node_port> root@<public_address>

> # Clone the GitHub repository

Reviewer 2: What Github repository? People do not necessarily have their things on GitHub.

You can test your addon hooks by running it inside the container shell. For example, `ADDON_DIR=$PWD ./hooks/install` can help test if the install hook of the addon works. See [environment variables](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/28555#env-variables) for a list of available variables.

To troubleshoot issues within the container, try either of the following options:
* Run `amc logs <container-id>` on the host to see the Anbox runtime logs.
* Run `journalctl --no-pager` within the container to view container logs.
* Restart the container using `amc stop <container_id>` and then `amc start <container_id>`.

## Example: Launch an SSH-enabled container for remote development

```bash
# Launch and obtain the container id
id="$(amc launch --devmode -s ssh --raw)"
# Install the ssh-import-id package
amc exec $id -- apt install -y ssh-import-id
# Import SSH keys for GitHub; Use lp:<user_name> for Launchpad
amc exec $id -- ssh-import-id gh:<user_name>
# Get the network's public address
# Run `sudo apt install jq` if `jq` is not already installed

> amc show $id --format=json | jq '.network.public_address'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
container_address=$(amc show $id --format=json | jq '.network.public_address')
```

That way we can use the variable in the command below.

Author: I had to use `jq -r` instead of just `jq` as the quoted JSON string was getting assigned to the variables.

```bash
$ container_address="$(amc show $id --format=json | jq '.network.public_address')
$ echo $container_address
"10.247.64.142"
$ ssh -p "$node_port" root@"$container_address"
ssh: Could not resolve hostname "10.247.64.142": Name or service not known

# With `jq -r`
$ container_address="$(amc show $id --format=json | jq -r '.network.public_address')
$ echo $container_address
10.247.64.142
$ ssh -p "$node_port" root@"$container_address"
...
<working ssh connection>
```

# Get the SSH port

> amc show $id --format=json | jq '.network.services[0].node_port'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
node_port=$(amc show $id --format=json | jq '.network.services[0].node_port')
```

# Connect to the container using SSH

> ssh -p <ssh port> root@<public address>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ssh -p "$node_port" root@"$container_address"
```
